# IntercomRails

The easiest way to install Intercom in a rails app.

For interacting with the Intercom REST API, use the `intercom` gem (https://github.com/intercom/intercom-ruby)

## Installation
Add this to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "intercom-rails"
```

Then run:

```
bundle install
```

Take note of your `app_id` from [here](https://app.intercom.io/apps/api_keys) and generate a config file:

```
rails generate intercom:config YOUR-APP-ID
```

To make installing Intercom as easy as possible, where possible a `<script>` tag **will be automatically inserted before the closing `</body>` tag**. For most Rails apps, **you won't need to do any extra config**. Having trouble? Check out troubleshooting below.

### Disabling automatic insertion

To disable automatic insertion for a particular controller or action you can:

```ruby
  skip_after_filter :intercom_rails_auto_include
```

### Troubleshooting
If it's not working make sure:

* You've generated a config file with your `app_id` as detailed above.
* Your user object responds to an `id` or `email` method.
* Your current user is accessible in your controllers as `current_user` or `@user`, if not in `config/initializers/intercom.rb`:
* If you want the Intercom Messenger to be available when there is no current user,  set `config.include_for_logged_out_users = true` in your config and sign up for the [Acquire](https://www.intercom.io/live-chat) package.

```ruby
  config.user.current = Proc.new { current_user_object }
```

Feel free to mail us: team@intercom.io, if you're still having trouble.

## Configuration

### API Secret
If you want to use secure mode, ensure you set your API secret in `config/initializers/intercom.rb`:

```ruby
  config.api_secret = '123456'
```

### User Custom data attributes
You can associate any attributes, specific to your app, with a user in Intercom.
For custom data attributes you want updated on every request set them in `config/initializers/intercom.rb`, the latest value will be sent to Intercom on each page visit.

Configure what attributes will be sent using either a:

  * `Proc` which will be passed the current user object
  * Or, a method which will be sent to the current user object

e.g.

```ruby
  config.user.custom_data = {
    :plan => Proc.new { |user| user.plan.name },
    :is_paid => Proc.new { |user| user.plan.present? },
    :email_verified => :email_verified?
  }
```

In some situations you'll want to set some custom data attribute specific to a request.
You can do this using the `intercom_custom_data` helper available in your controllers:

```ruby
class AppsController < ActionController::Base
  def activate
    intercom_custom_data.user[:app_activated_at] = Time.now
    ...
  end

  def destroy
    intercom_custom_data.user[:app_deleted_at] = Time.now
    ...
  end
end
```

Attributes must be accessible in order to sync with intercom.
Additionally, attributes ending in "_at" will be parsed as times.

### Companies

By default, Intercom treats all Users as unrelated individuals. If for example you know users are part of a company, you can group them as such.

Read more about it here http://docs.intercom.io/configuring-Intercom/grouping-users-by-company

Basic usage is as follows - in `config/initializers/intercom.rb`

```ruby
config.company.current = Proc.new { current_company }
```

and like with Users, you can set custom attribute on companies too:

```ruby
config.company.custom_data = {
  :number_of_messages => Proc.new { |app| app.messages.count },
  :is_interesting => :is_interesting?
}
```

### Live Chat / Acquire
With our [Acquire package](https://www.intercom.io/live-chat), Intercom Messenger now works with logged out users and visitors to your web site. Include the Intercom snippet on every page by setting:

```ruby
  config.include_for_logged_out_users = true
```

### Messenger
Intercom includes an in-app messenger which allows a user to read messages and start conversations.

By default Intercom will add a button that opens the messenger to the page. If you want to customize the style of the link that opens the messenger:

```ruby
  config.inbox.style = :custom
```

With this option enabled, clicks on any element with an id of `Intercom` will open the messenger. So the simplest option here would be to add something like the following to your layout:

```html
  <a id="Intercom">Support</a>
```

You can read more about configuring the messenger in your applications settings, within Intercom.

### Environments

By default Intercom will be automatically inserted in development and production Rails environments. If you would like to specify the environments in which Intercom should be inserted, you can do so as follows:

```ruby
  config.enabled_environments = ["production"]
```

### Manually Inserting the Intercom Javascript

Some situations may require manually inserting the Intercom script tag. If you simply wish to place the Intercom javascript in a different place within the page or, on a page without a closing `</body>` tag:

```erb
  <%= intercom_script_tag %>
```

This will behave exactly the same as the default auto-install. If for whatever reason you can't use auto-install, you can also provide a hash of user data as the first argument:

```erb
<% if logged_in? %>
  <%= intercom_script_tag({
    :app_id => 'your-app-id',
    :user_id => current_user.id,
    :email => current_user.email,
    :name => current_user.name,
    :created_at => current_user.created_at,
    :custom_data => {
      'plan' => current_user.plan.name
    }
  }) %>
<% end %>
```

You can also override `IntercomRails::Config` options such as your `api_secret`, or widget configuration with a second hash:

```erb
<% if logged_in? %>
  <%= intercom_script_tag({
    :app_id => 'your-app-id',
    :user_id => current_user.id,
    :email => current_user.email,
    :name => current_user.name,
    :created_at => current_user.created_at
  }, {
    :secret => 'your-apps-api-secret',
    :widget => {:activator => '#Intercom'}
  }) %>
<% end %>
```
## Importing your users
To get started faster with Intercom, `IntercomRails` includes a Rake task that will do an initial import of your users:

```
rake intercom:import
```

Any custom data defined in `config/initializers/intercom.rb` will also be sent.

## Running tests/specs

specs should run on a clean clone of this repo, using the following commands. (developed against ruby 2.1.2 and 1.9.3)

```
bundle install
bundle exec rake spec
or
bundle exec rspec spec/
```

## Contributors

- Dr Nic Williams (@drnic) - provided a rails generator for adding the Intercom javascript tag into your layout.
- Alexander Chaychuk (@sashich) - fixed bug in user detection when users not persisted (e.g. new session view with devise).

## License

intercom-rails is released under the [MIT License](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Intercom, Inc.  All rights reserved.
